Early one morning, armed Russian special forces broke into my home.
They handcuffed me and searched my place.
They took me to the FSB office for interrogation.
Two days later, the court sentenced me to pre-trial detention.
I was scared because I didn't know how I would be treated in prison.
Threatening that things would get worse for me, the officer demanded that I incriminate
myself, admit guilt, and give the names of my fellow believers.
I also really missed my dear wife.
It was so hard without her.
For two months, I didn't have any spiritual food or a Bible.
So I decided to make one.
My wife sent me a notebook and every day I wrote down verses that I was able to remember.
After I had written about 500 verses, I was given a Bible.
Because I was so spiritually hungry, I read it through in four months.
During this time, I wrote letters to my wife and friends and shared interesting things
that I learned from my reading.
But the letters I received from my friends and my dear wife gave me the feeling that the
brothers and sisters were so close to me, as if they were in the cells next to me.
I wasn't lonely.
I felt as if my friends were right there with me.
Every trial detention isolates a person from society.
But it's impossible to isolate someone from Jehovah.
Throughout the day, I prayed to Jehovah many times, but I especially waited for bad time.
When everyone wasn't bad and only the nightlight was on, I could talk to Jehovah as much as
I wanted.
There were times when I was all alone in the cell.
And of course, I took advantage of the situation.
I would get down on my knees and would literally cry as I prayed to Jehovah.
I decided to write my requests to God on a sheet of paper and then mark off the ones that
he answered.
I was convinced that Jehovah was very close to me.
I also quietly sang our songs throughout the day.
But when I was all alone, I sang at the top of my voice.
I also tried to give a witness whenever possible.
We discussed a variety of topics, everything from tattoos to the King of the North.
All my fears and anxieties were for nothing.
I was in detention 343 days and not even a hair fell from my head.
This was the most interesting year of my life, an excellent school to help refine my spiritual
qualities.
I have never felt so close to Jehovah.
What a great honor to uphold God's sovereignty in this way.